## Abstract 
Software defect prediction aims to identify potentially defective software modules to better allocate limited quality assurance resources. Practitioners often do this by utilizing supervised models trained using historical data. This data is gathered by mining version control and issue tracking systems. Version control commits are linked to issues they address. If the linked issue is classified as a bug report, the change is considered as bug fixing. The problem arises from the fact that issues are often incorrectly classified within issue tracking systems. This introduces noise into the gathered datasets. In this paper, we investigate the influence issue classification has on software defect prediction dataset quality and resulting model performance. To do this, we mine data from 7 popular open-source repositories, create issue classification and software defect prediction datasets for each of them. We investigate issue classification using four different methods; a simple keyword heuristic, an improved keyword heuristic, the FastText model and the RoBERTa model. Our results show that using the RoBERTa model for issue classification produces the best software defect prediction datasets, containing on average 14.3641% of mislabeled instances. Models trained on such datasets achieve superior performance, to those trained on datasets created using other methods, in 65 out of 84 experiments, with 55 of them being statistically relevant. Furthermore, in 17 out of 28 experiments we could not show a statistically relevant performance difference between models trained on RoBERTa derived software defect prediction datasets and those created using manually labeled issues.

### NOTE
Due to the mined data and pretrained models being large (multiple tens of GB) we could not upload all. 

For data and/or pretrained models please contact: petar.afric@fer.hr
